title
IJCNLP-2017 Task 4: <TASK>Customer Feedback Analysis</TASK>
abstract
This document introduces the IJCNLP 2017 Shared Task on Customer Feedback Analysis. In this shared task we have prepared corpora of customer feedback in four languages, i.e. English, French, Spanish and Japanese. They were annotated in a common meanings categorization, which was improved from an ADAPT-Microsoft pivot study on customer feedback. Twenty teams participated in the shared task and twelve of them have submitted prediction results. The results show that performance of prediction meanings of customer feedback is reasonable well in four languages. Nine system description papers are archived in the shared tasks proceeding.

Introduction
In this paper we introduce the results of IJCNLP 2017 Shared Task on Customer Feedback Analysis. The shared task is a follow-up of an ADAPT-Microsoft joint pilot study on multilingual customer feedback analysis. We have improved the categorization and the classes (tags) used in the corpora are the five-class "comment", "request", "bug", "complaint", "meaningless", and the "undetermined" tag. By undetermined we mean that the feedback could be annotated as one of the five classes but due to lack of contexts it was annotated as undetermined. Table 1 shows the numbers of customer feedback sentences curated in the corpora and how many they are grouped into training, development and test sets. We also provided unannotated customer feedback sentences in the corpora. Table 2 shows the statistics of each class in the meaning categorization in the training set. Noted we cannot find "meaningless" feedback sentence in Japanese corpus. On the contrary, there is no "undetermined" feedback sentence in Spanish corpus. These might reflect some linguistic and/or cultural differences in the curated customer feedback corpora. Abbreviations EN, ES, FR and JP are used interchangeably with English, Spanish, French and Japanese where applicable.

Lang.
Train The purpose of the shared task is to try to answer the question that if we need to 1) train native systems for different languages (using the same meanings categorization of customer feedback), or it is good enough to 2) use Machine Translation (MT) to translate customer feedback in other languages into English and use English based systems to do the detection of meanings of customer feedback. If the answer is 1, we will have to prepare corpora for different languages using the same categorization. If the answer is 2, then it would be more reasonable to put more efforts to enhance the performance of English based systems and try to further improve the quality of MT results.
There are several categorizations that could be used for customer feedback analysis. First, different kinds of sentiment categorizations that were used in sentiment analysis in Microsoft Office and many other institutions (Salameh et al., 2015) Customer feedback analysis is now an industry in its own right (Freshdesk, 2016;Burns, 2016). One commonly used categorization is the Excellent-Good-Average-Fair-Poor and its various kinds of variants (Yin et al., 2016;Survey-Monkey, 2016). (Freshdesk, 2016) and (Keatext, 2016) used a combined categorization of Positive-Neutral-Negative-Answered-Unanswered. (Sift, 2016) has the Refund-Complaint-Pricing-Tech Support-Store Locator-Feedback-Warranty Info categorization in seven classes. We can also have observed that there are many other categorizations that are not publicly available (Equiniti, 2016;UseResponse, 2016;Inmoment, 2016).
In this shared task, we followed (Liu et al., 2017)'s five-class customer feedback meanings categorization which is generalized from English, Spanish and Japanese customer feedback, add an "undetermined" class and prepared the corpora in four languages (English, French, Spanish and Japanese). The resulting categorization is as follows.
1. Comment 2. Request 3. Bug 4. Complaint 5. Meaningless 6. Undetermined

Measures
In this shared task, we concluded the results in four different measures. The details of the results can be download from the shared task website.
• Exact-match Accuracy: Feedback is considered correct only when "all its oracle tags" are predicted correctly. • Partial-match Accuracy: Feedback is considered correct if 'any' of its oracle tags is predicted. • Micro-Average of Precision, Recall and F1 • Macro-Average of Precision, Recall and F1: As the number of instances of each tag varies a lot this measure might not be suitable for comparisons in the shared task.
In this paper we show mainly the results of 1) Exact-match Accuracy and 2) Micro-Average of Precision, Recall and F1, which are more suitable measures in our consideration.

Baseline and Submitted Systems
A baseline system was implemented using similarity based method. It uses trigrams to calculate the similarity of an input sentence and all the annotated customer feedback sentences in the corpora and uses the annotation of the one (in the annotated training corpora) with highest similarity score as the input sentence's predicted annotation.
The baseline system is referred to as "Baseline-Similarity" in this paper.
In this shared task, an initial team name was given to each team in the release of results. For example, TA was used to designate Team A. In the report of these results, i.e. this paper, a team name is revealed only when consent from its corresponding team is granted.
The mapping of each team name and its corresponding system description paper is shown as follows. Please refer to each paper for details of the system/method they used for the problem of customer feedback analysis 

Results in Exact-Match Accuracy
Tables 3-6 shows the results of each team-method in exact-match accuracy in English, Spanish, French and Japanese, respectively. The details of each method implemented by each team are described in their associated system description papers. The method denoted as "entrans" is the one that used machine translated sentences to do the prediction of meanings of customer feedback. For example, in the "Plank-entrans" system in Table 4, the sentences in Spanish test set are machine translated from Spanish to English using Google Translate, and then use Plank's English based system to predict their tags.
It is observed that for exact-accuracy, the best performers of submitted systems can achieve 71.00%, 88.63%, 73.75% and 75.00% in English, Spanish, French and Japanese, respectively. First, we can observe that the task seems to be easier in Spanish which is the same phenomenon reported in (Liu et al., 2017). Second, performances in English, French and Japanese are also good and around the same level. Third, using machine translation the systems can achieve comparable results for Spanish and French, which are only 4 and 2 points behind native systems, respectively. For Japanese there is about 12 points behind the best native system.

English
Exact 

Results in Micro-Average Precision, Recall and F1 measures
Likewise, Tables 7-10 show the results of each team-method in micro-average precision, recall and F1 measures in English, Spanish, French and Japanese, respectively. For micro-average F1, the best systems achieved 75.57%, 88.63%, 76.59% and 77.05% in English, Spanish, French and Japanese, respectively. The results in Spanish exhibit the same phenomenon as in exact-match accuracy results and in (Liu et al., 2017). The performances in English, French and Japanese are also good and around the same level. Using machine translation, the systems can also achieve comparable results in this measure for Spanish and French, which are 4 and 2 points behind native systems, respectively. There is 11 points behind in Japanese in this regard. 

English
Conclusions
In this shared task, we address the problem if we should 1) train native systems for different languages, or 2) use MT to translate customer feedback into English and use English based systems to predict meanings of customer feedback. By using the same categorization, we concluded that using native systems, the performances in the four languages are all good. For Spanish and French, using MT can achieve comparable results as using native systems. Therefore, we would suggest improving English based systems and probably preparing the corpora in finer categorizations that would help us understand customer feedbacks.
However, for Japanese or other languages where MT still does not produce high quality translations, preparing native corpora and building native systems are still highly recommended.

:
:
