title
Overview of the Epigenetics and Post-translational Modifications (EPI) task of BioNLP Shared Task 2011
abstract
This paper presents the preparation, resources, results and analysis of the Epigenetics and Post-translational Modifications (EPI) task, a main task of the BioNLP Shared Task 2011. The task concerns <TASK>the extraction of detailed representations of 14 protein and DNA modification events, the catalysis of these reactions, and the identification of instances of negated or speculatively stated event instances</TASK>. Seven teams submitted final results to the EPI task in the shared task, with the highest-performing system achieving 53% F-score in the full task and 69% F-score in the extraction of a simplified set of core event arguments.

Introduction
The Epigenetics and Post-translational Modifications (EPI) task is a shared task on event extraction from biomedical domain scientific publications, first introduced as a main task in the BioNLP Shared Task 2011 (Kim et al., 2011a).
The EPI task focuses on events relating to epigenetic change, including DNA methylation and histone methylation and acetylation (see e.g. (Holliday, 1987;Jaenisch and Bird, 2003)), as well as other common protein post-translational modifications (PTMs) (Witze et al., 2007). PTMs are chemical modifications of the amino acid residues of proteins, and DNA methylation a parallel modification of the nucleotides on DNA. While these modifications are chemically simple reactions and can thus be straightforwardly represented in full detail, they have a crucial role in the regulation of gene expression and protein function: the modifications can alter the conformation of DNA or proteins and thus control their ability to associate with other molecules, making PTMs key steps in protein biosynthesis for introducing the full range of protein functions. For instance, protein phosphorylationthe attachment of phosphate -is a common mechanism for activating or inactivating enzymes by altering the conformation of protein active sites (Stock et al., 1989;Barford et al., 1998), and protein ubiquitination -the post-translational attachment of the small protein ubiquitin -is the first step of a major mechanism for the destruction (breakdown) of many proteins (Glickman and Ciechanover, 2002).
Many of the PTMs targeted in the EPI task involve modification of histone, a core protein that forms an octameric complex that has a crucial role in packaging chromosomal DNA. The level of methylation and acetylation of histones controls the tightness of the chromatin structure, and only "unwound" chromatin exposes the gene packed around the histone core to the transcriptional machinery. Since histone modification is of substantial current interest in epigenetics, we designed aspects of the EPI task to capture the full detail in which histone modification events are stated in text. Finally, the DNA methylation of gene regulatory elements controls the expression of the gene by altering the affinity with which DNA-binding proteins (including transcription factors) bind, and highly methylated genes are not transcribed at all (Riggs, 1975;Holliday and Pugh, 1975). DNA methylation can thus "switch off" genes, "removing" them from the genome in a way that is reversible through DNA demethylation. The BioNLP'09 Shared Task on Event Extraction , the first task in the present shared task series, involved the extraction of nine event types including one PTM type, PHOSPHORY-LATION. The results of the shared task showed this PTM event to be the single most reliably extracted event type in the task, with the best-performing system for the type achieving 91% precision and 76% recall (83% F-score) in its extraction (Buyko et al., 2009). The results suggest both that the event representation is well applicable to PTM extraction and that current extraction methods are capable of reliable PTM extraction. The EPI task follows up on these opportunities, introducing specific, strongly biologically motivated extraction targets that are expected to be both feasible for highaccuracy event extraction, relevant to the needs of present-day molecular biology, and closely applicable to biomolecular database curation needs (see Figure 1) (Ohta et al., 2010a).

Task Setting
The EPI task is an event extraction task in the sense popularized by a number of recent domain resources and challenges (e.g. (Pyysalo et al., 2007;Kim et al., 2008;Thompson et al., 2009;Ananiadou et al., 2010)). In broad outline, the task focuses on the extraction of information on statements regarding change in the state or properties of (physical) entities, modeled using an event representation. In this representation, events are typed n-ary associations of participants (entities or other events) in specific roles. Events are bound to specific expressions in text (the event trigger or text binding) and are primary objects of annotation, allowing them to be marked in turn e.g. as negated or as participants in other events. Figure 2 illustrates these concepts.
In its specific formulation, EPI broadly follows the definition of the BioNLP'09 shared task on event extraction. Basic modification events are defined similarly to the PHOSPHORYLATION event type targeted in the '09 and the 2011 GE and ID tasks (Kim et al., 2011b;Pyysalo et al., 2011b), with the full task extending previously defined arguments with two additional ones, Sidechain and Contextgene.

Entities
The EPI task follows the general policy of the BioNLP Shared Task in isolating the basic task of named entity recognition from the event extraction task by providing task participants with manually annotated gene and gene product entities as a starting point for extraction. The entity types follow the BioNLP'09 Shared Task scheme, where genes and their products are simply marked as PROTEIN. 1 In addition to the given PROTEIN entities, some events involve other entities, such as the modification Site. These entities are not given and must thus be identified by systems targeting the full task (see Section 4). In part to reduce the demands of this entity recognition component of the task, these additional entities are not given specific types but are generically marked as ENTITY. Table 1: Event types and their arguments. The type of entity allowed as argument is specified in parenthesis. For each event type except CATALYSIS, the reverse reaction (e.g. DEACETYLATION for ACETYLATION) is also defined, with identical arguments. The total number of event types in the task is thus 15.

Relations
The EPI task does not define any explicit relation extraction targets. However, the task annotation involves one relation type, EQUIV. This is a binary, symmetric, transitive relation between entities that defines two entities to be equivalent (Hoehndorf et al., 2010). The relation is used in the gold annotation to mark local aliases such as the full and abbreviated forms of a protein name as referring to the same real-world entity. While the '09 task only recognized equivalent PROTEIN entities, EPI extends on the scope of EQUIV annotations in allowing entities of any type to be marked equivalent. In evaluation, references to any of a set of equivalent entities are treated identically.

Events
While the EPI task entity definition closely follows that of the previous shared task, the task introduces considerable novelty in the targeted events, adding a total of 14 novel event types and two new participant roles. Table 1 summarizes the targeted event types and their arguments.
As in the BioNLP'09 shared task, Theme arguments identify the entity that the event is about, such as the protein that is acetylated in an acetylation event. A Theme is always mandatory for all EPI task events. Site arguments identify the modification site on the Theme entity, such as a specific residue on a modified protein or a specific region on a methylated gene. The Sidechain argument, specific to GLYCO-SYLATION and DEGLYCOSYLATION among the targeted events, identifies the moiety attached or re-moved in the event (in glycosylation, the sugar). 2 Finally, the Contextgene argument, specific to ACETY-LATION and METHYLATION events and their reverse reactions, identifies the gene whose expression is controlled by these modifications. This argument applies specifically for histone protein modification: the modification of the histones that form the nucleosomes that structure DNA are key to the epigenetic control of gene expression. The Site, Sidechain and Contextgene arguments are not mandatory, and should only be extracted when explicitly stated.
For CATALYSIS events, representing the catalysis of protein or DNA modification by another protein, both Theme and Cause are mandatory. While CATALYSIS is a new event type, it is related to the '09 POSITIVE REGULATION type by a classsubclass relation: any CATALYSIS event is a POS-ITIVE REGULATION event in the '09 task terms (but not vice versa).

Event modifications
In addition to events, the EPI task defines two event modification extraction targets: NEGATION and SPECULATION. Both are represented as simple binary "flags" that apply to events, marking them as being explicitly negated (e.g. H2A is not methylated) or stated in a speculative context (e.g. H2A may be methylated). Events may be both negated and speculated.

Data
The primary EPI task data were annotated specifically for the BioNLP Shared Task 2011 and are not based on any previously released resource. Before starting this annotation effort, we performed two preparatory studies using in part previously released related datasets: in (Ohta et al., 2010a) we considered the extraction of four protein post-translational modifications event types with reference to annotations originally created for the Protein Information Resource 3 (PIR) (Wu et al., 2003), and in (Ohta et al., 2010b) we studied the annotation and extraction of DNA methylation events with reference to annotations created for the PubMeth 4 (Ongenaert et al., 2008) database. The corpus text selection and annotation scheme were then defined following the understanding formed in these studies.

Document selection
The texts for the EPI task corpus were drawn from PubMed abstracts. In selecting the primary corpus texts, we aimed to gather a representative sample of all PubMed documents relevant to selected modification events, avoiding bias toward, for example, specific genes/proteins, species, forms of event expression, or subdomains. We primarily targeted DNA methylation and the "prominent PTM types" identified in (Ohta et al., 2010a). We defined the following document selection protocol: for each of the targeted event types, 1) Select a random sample of PubMed abstracts annotated with the MeSH term corresponding to the target event (e.g. Acetylation) 2) Automatically tag protein/gene entities in the selected abstracts, removing ones where fewer than a specific cutoff are found 3) Perform manual filtering removing documents not relevant to the targeted topic (optional).
MeSH is a controlled vocabulary of over 25,000 terms that is used to manually annotate each document in PubMed. By performing initial document retrieval using MeSH terms it is possible to select relevant documents without bias toward specific expressions in text. While search for documents tagged with e.g. the Acetylation MeSH term is sufficient to select documents relevant to the modi-fication, not all such documents necessarily concern specifically protein modification, necessitating a filtering step. Following preliminary experiments, we chose to apply the BANNER named entity tagger (Leaman and Gonzalez, 2008) trained on the GENE-TAG corpus (Tanabe et al., 2005) and to filter documents where fewer than five entities were identified. Finally, for some modification types this protocol selected also a substantial number of non-relevant documents. In these cases a manual filtering step was performed prior to full annotation to avoid marking large numbers of non-relevant abstracts.
This primary corpus text selection protocol does not explicitly target reverse reactions such as deacetylation, and the total number of these events in the resulting corpus was low for many types. To be able to measure the extraction performance for these types, we defined a secondary selection protocol that augmented the primary protocol with a regular expression-based filter removing documents that did not (likely) contain mentions of reverse reactions. This protocol was used to select a secondary set of test abstracts enriched in mentions of reverse reactions. Performance on this secondary test set was also evaluated, but is not part of the primary task evaluation. Due to space considerations, we only present the primary test set results in this paper, referring to the shared task website for the secondary results.

Annotation
Annotation was performed manually.
The gene/protein entities automatically detected in the document selection step were provided to annotators for reference for creating PROTEIN annotations, but all entity annotations were checked and revised to conform to the specific guidelines for the task. 5 For the annotation of PROTEIN entities, we adopted the GENIA gene/gene product (GGP) annotation guidelines , adding one specific exception: while the primary guidelines require that only specific individual gene or gene product names are annotated, we allowed also the annotation of mentions of groups of histones or the entire histone protein family to capture histone modification events also in cases where only the group is mentioned.
All event annotations were created from scratch without automatic support to avoid bias toward specific automatic extraction methods or approaches. The event annotation follows the GENIA event corpus annotation guidelines (Kim et al., 2008) as they apply to protein modifications, with CATALYSIS being annotated following the criteria for the POSI-TIVE REGULATION event type with the additional constraints that the Cause of the event is a gene or gene product entity and the form of regulation is catalysis of a modification reaction.
The manual annotation was performed by three experienced annotators with a molecular biology background, with one chief annotator with extensive experience in domain event annotation organizing and supervising the annotator training and the overall process. After completion of primary annotation, we performed a final check targeting simple human errors using an automatic extraction system. 6 This correction process resulted in the revision of approximately 2% of the event annotations. To evaluate the consistency of the annotation, we performed independent event annotation (taking PROTEIN annotations as given) for a random sample of 10% of the corpus documents. Comparison of the two manually created sets of event annotations under the primary task evaluation criteria gave an F-score of 82% for the full task and 89% for the core task. 7 We found that CATALYSIS events were particularly challenging, showing just 65% agreement for the core task.
Table 2 shows the statistics of the primary task data. We note that while the corpus is broadly comparable in size to the BioNLP'09 shared task dataset  in terms of the number of abstracts and annotated entities, the number of annotated events in the EPI corpus is approximately 20% of that in the '09 dataset, reflecting the more focused event types.
6 High-confidence system predictions differing from gold annotations were provided to a human annotator, not used directly to change corpus data. To further reduce the risk of bias, we only informed the annotator of the entities involved, not of the predicted event structure.
7 Due to symmetry of precision/recall and the applied criteria, this score was not affected by the choice of which set of annotations to consider as "gold" for the comparison.  

Evaluation
Evaluation is instance-and event-oriented and based on the standard precision/recall/F-score 8 metrics. The primary evaluation criteria are the same as in the BioNLP'09 shared task, incorporating the "approximate span matching" and "approximate recursive matching" variants to strict matching. In brief, under these criteria text-bound annotations (event triggers and entities) in a submission are considered to match a corresponding gold annotation if their span is contained within the (mildly extended) span of the gold annotation, and events that refer to other events as arguments are considered to match if the Theme arguments of the recursively referred events match, that is, non-Theme arguments are ignored in recursively referred events. For a detailed description of these evaluation criteria, we refer to . In addition to the primary evaluation criteria, we introduced a new relaxed evaluation criterion we term single partial penalty. Under the primary criteria, when a predicted event matches a gold event in some of its arguments but lacks one or more arguments of the gold event, the submission is arguably given a double penalty: the predicted event is counted as a false positive (FP), and the gold event is counted as a false negative (FN). Under the single partial penalty evaluation criterion, predicted events that match a gold event in all their arguments are not counted as FP, although the corresponding gold event still counts as FN (the "single penalty"). Analogously, gold events that partially match a predicted event are not counted as FN, although the corresponding predicted event with "extra" arguments counts as FP. This criterion can give a more nuanced view of performance for partially correctly predicted events.  The full EPI task involves many partially independent challenges, incorporating what were treated in the BioNLP'09 shared task as separate subtasks: the identification of additional non-Theme event participants (Task 2 in '09) and the detection of negated and speculated events (Task 3 in '09). The EPI task does not include explicit subtasks. However, we specifies minimal core extraction targets in addition to the full task targets. Results are reported separately for core targets and full task, allowing participants to choose to only extract core targets. The full task results are considered the primary evaluation for the task e.g. for the purposes of determining the ranking of participating systems.

Results
Participation
Table 3 summarizes the participating groups and the features of their extraction systems. We note that, similarly to the '09 task, machine learning-based systems remain dominant overall, although there is considerable divergence in the specific methods applied. In addition to domain mainstays such as support vector machines and maximum entropy models, we find increased application of joint models Riedel and McCallum, 2011) as opposed to pure pipeline systems (Björne and Salakoski, 2011;Quirk et al., 2011) . Remarkably, the application of full pars-ing together with dependency-based representations of syntactic analyses is adopted by all participants, with the parser of Charniak and Johnson (2005) with the biomedical domain model of McClosky ( 2009) is applied in all but one system (Liu et al., 2011) and the Stanford Dependency representation (de Marneffe et al., 2006) in all. These choices may be motivated in part by the success of systems using the tools in the previous shared task and the availability of the analyses as supporting resources (Stenetorp et al., 2011).
Despite the availability of PTM and DNA methylation resources other than those specifically introduced for the task and the PHOSPHORYLATION annotations in the GE task (Kim et al., 2011b), no participant chose to apply other corpora for training. With the exception of externally acquired unlabeled data such as PubMed-derived word clusters applied by three groups, the task results thus reflect a closed task setting in which only the given data is used for training.

Evaluation results
Table 4 presents a the primary results by event type, and Table 5 summarizes these results. We note that only two teams, UTurku (Björne and Salakoski, 2011) and ConcordU (Kilicoglu and Bergler, 2011), predicted event modifications, and only UTurku predicted additional (non-core) event arguments (data not shown). The other five systems thus addressed   only the core task. For the full task, this difference in approach is reflected in the substantial performance advantage for the UTurku system, which exhibits highest performance overall as well as for most individual event types.
Extraction performance for simple events taking only Theme and Site arguments is consistently higher than for other event types, with absolute Fscore differences of over 10% points for many sys-tems. Similar notable performance differences are seen between the addition events, for which ample training data was available, and the removal types for which data was limited. This effect is particularly noticeable for DEPHOSPHORYLATION, DNA DEMETHYLATION and DEMETHYLATION, for which the clear majority of systems failed to predict any correct events. Extraction performance for CATALYSIS events is very low despite a relatively large set of training examples, indicating that the extraction of nested event structures remains very challenging. This low performance may also be related to the fact that CATALYSIS events are often triggered by the same word as the catalysed modification (e.g. Figure 1b), requiring the assignment of multiple event labels to a single word in typical system architectures.
Table 6 summarizes the full task results with the addition of the single partial penalty criterion. The F-scores for the seven participants under this crite- rion are on average over 4% points higher than under the primary criteria, with the most substantial increases seen for high-ranking participants only addressing the core task: for example, the precision of the FAUST system  is nearly 30% higher under the relaxed criterion. These results provide new perspective deserving further detailed study into the question of what are the most meaningful criteria for event extraction system evaluation.
Table 7 summarizes the core task results. While all systems show notably higher performance than for the full task, high-ranking participants focusing on the core task gain most dramatically, with the FAUST system core task F-score essentially matching that of the top system (UTurku). For the core task, all participants achieve F-scores over 50%a result achieved by only a single system in the '09 task -and the top four participants average over 65% F-score. These results confirm that current event extraction technology is well applicable to the core PTM extraction task even when the number of targeted event types is relatively high and may be ready to address the challenges of exhaustive PTM extraction . The best core tasks results, approaching 70% F-score, are particularly encouraging as the level of performance is comparable to or better than state-of-the-art results for many reference resources for protein-protein interaction extraction (see e.g. Tikk et al. (2010))) using the simple untyped entity pair representation, a standard task that has been extensively studied in the domain.

Discussion and Conclusions
This paper has presented the preparation, resources, results and analysis of the BioNLP Shared Task  7: Core task evaluation results. The ∆ 1 column gives F-score difference to primary full task results, ∆ 2 to full task results with single partial penalty.
2011 Epigenetics and Post-translational modifications (EPI) main task. The results demonstrate that the core extraction target of identifying statements of 14 different modification types with the modified gene or gene product can be reliably addressed by current event extraction methods, with two systems approaching 70% F-score at this task. Nevertheless, challenges remain in detecting statements regarding the catalysis of these events as well as in resolving the full detail of such modification events, a task attempted by only one participant and at which performance remains at somewhat above 50% in F-score.
Detailed evaluation showed that the highly competitive participating systems differ substantially in their relative strengths, indicating potential for further development at protein and DNA modification event detection. The task results are available in full detail from the shared task webpage, http: //sites.google.com/site/bionlpst/.
In the future, we will follow the example of the BioNLP'09 shared task in making the data and resources of the EPI task open to all interested parties to encourage further study of event extraction for epigenetics and post-translational modification events, to facilitate system comparison on a welldefined standard task, and to support the development of further applications of event extraction technology in this important area of biomolecular science.

