title
TextGraphs 2021 Shared Task on Multi-Hop Inference for Explanation Regeneration
abstract
The Shared Task on Multi-Hop Inference for Explanation Regeneration asks participants to compose large multi-hop explanations to questions by assembling large chains of facts from a supporting knowledge base. While previous editions of this shared task aimed to evaluate explanatory completeness -finding a set of facts that form a complete inference chain, without gaps, to arrive from question to correct answer, this 2021 instantiation concentrates on the subtask of determining relevance in large multi-hop explanations. To this end, this edition of the shared task makes use of a large set of approximately 250k manual explanatory relevancy ratings that augment the 2020 shared task data. In this summary paper, we describe the details of the explanation regeneration task, the evaluation data, and the participating systems. Additionally, we perform a detailed analysis of participating systems, evaluating various aspects involved in the multi-hop inference process. The best performing system achieved an NDCG of 0.82 on this challenging task, substantially increasing performance over baseline methods by 32%, while also leaving significant room for future improvement.

Introduction
Multi-hop inference is the task of aggregating more than one fact to perform an inference. In the context of natural language processing, multi-hop inference is typically evaluated using auxiliary tasks such as question answering, where multiple sentences from external corpora need to be retrieved and composed Figure 1: The motivating example provided to participants. Given a question and correct answer (top), the explanation regeneration task requires participating models to find sets of facts that, taken together, provide a detailed chain-of-reasoning for the answer (bottom). This 2021 instantiation of the shared task focuses on the subtask of collecting the most relevant facts for building explanations.
to form reasoning chains that support the correct answer (see Figure 1). As such, multi-hop inference represents a crucial step towards explainability in complex question answering, as the set of supporting facts can be interpreted as an explanation for the underlying inference process (Thayaparan et al., 2020).
Constructing long inference chains can be extremely challenging for existing models, which generally exhibit a large drop in performance when composing explanations and inference chains requiring more than 2 inference steps (Fried et al., 2015;Jansen et al., , 2018Khashabi et al., 2019;Yadav et al., 2020). To this end, this Shared Task on Multi-hop Inference for Explanation Regeneration (Jansen andUstalov, 2019, 2020) has focused on expanding the capacity of models to compose long inference chains, where participants are asked to develop systems capable of reconstructing detailed explanations for science exam questions drawn from the WorldTree explanation corpus (Xie et al., 2020;Jansen et al., 2018), which range in compositional complexity from 1 to 16 facts (with the average explanation including 6 facts).
Large explanations are typically evaluated on two dimensions: relevance and completeness. Relevance refers to whether each fact in an explanation is relevant, topical, and required to complete the chain of inference that moves from question to correct answer. Conversely, completeness evaluates whether the entire set of facts in the explanation, together, composes a complete chain of inference from question to answer, without significant gaps. In practice, both of these are challenging to evaluate automatically (Buckley and Voorhees, 2004;Voorhees, 2002), given that multi-hop datasets typically include a single example of a complete explanation, in large part due to the time and expense associated with generating such annotation. Underscoring this difficulty, post-competition manual analyses on participating systems in the previous two iterations of this shared task showed that models may be performing up to 20% better at retrieving correct facts to build their explanation from, highlighting this significant methodological challenge.
This 2021 instantiation of the Shared Task on Explanation Regeneration focuses on the theme of determining relevance in large multi-hop explanations. To this end, participants were given access to a large pre-release dataset of approximately 250k explanatory relevancy ratings that augment the 2020 shared task data (Jansen and Ustalov, 2020), and were tasked with ranking the facts most critical to assembling large explanations for a given question highest. Similarly to the previous instances of our competition, the shared task has been organized on the CodaLab platform. 1 We released train and development datasets along with the baseline solution in advance to allow one to get to know the task specifics. 2 We ran the practice 1 https://competitions.codalab.org/ competitions/23615 2 https://github.com/cognitiveailab/ tg2021task phase from February 15 till March 9, 2021. Then we released the test dataset without answers and ran the official evaluation phase from March 10 till March 24, 2021. After that we established postcompetition phase to enable long-term evaluation of the methods beyond our shared task. Participating systems substantially increased task performance compared to a supplied baseline system by 32%, while achieving moderate overall absolute task performance -highlighting both the success of this shared task, as well as the continued challenge of determining relevancy in large multi-hop inference problems.

Related Work
Semantic Drift. Multi-hop question answering systems suffer from the tendency of composing out-of-context inference chains as the number of required hops (aggregated facts) increases. This phenomenon, known as semantic drift, has been observed in a number of works (Fried et al., 2015;Jansen, 2017), which have empirically demonstrated that multi-hop inference models exhibit a substantial drop in performance when aggregating more than 2 facts or paragraphs. Semantic drift has been observed across a variety of representations and traversal methods, including word and dependency level (Pan et al., 2017;Fried et al., 2015), sentence level , and paragraph level (Clark and Gardner, 2018). Khashabi et al. (2019) have demonstrated that ongoing efforts on "very long" multi-hop reasoning are unlikely to succeed without the adoption of a richer underlying representation that allows for reasoning with fewer hops.
Many-hop multi-hop training data. There is a recent explosion of explanation-centred datasets for multi-hop question answering (Jhamtani and Clark, 2020;Xie et al., 2020;Jansen et al., 2018;Yang et al., 2018;Thayaparan et al., 2020;Wiegreffe and Marasović, 2021). However, most of these datasets require the aggregation of only two sentences or paragraphs, making it hard to evaluate the robustness of the models in terms of semantic drift. On the other hand, the WorldTree corpus (Xie et al., 2020;Jansen et al., 2018) used in this shared task is explicitly designed to test multi-hop inference models on the reconstruction of long inference chains requiring the aggregation of an average of 6 facts, and as many as 16 facts.
Question: Which of the following best explains why the Sun appears to move across the sky every day?
Answer: Earth rotates on its axis.
Explanatory Relevance Ratings # Fact (Table Row) Relevance 1
The Earth rotating on its axis causes the Sun to appear to move across the sky during the day 6 2
If a human is on a rotating planet then other celestial bodies will appear to move from that human's perspective due to the rotation of that planet 6 3 The Earth rotates on its tilted axis 6 4
Diurnal motion is when objects in the sky appear to move due to Earth's rotation on its axis 6 5
Apparent motion is when an object appears to move relative to another object's perspective / another object 's position 5 6
Earth rotating on its axis occurs once per day 4 7
Rotation is a kind of motion 4 8
A rotation is a kind of movement 4 9
The Sun sets in the west 2 10 The Sun is a kind of star 2 11 Earth is a kind of planet 2 12 Earth's angle of tilt causes the length of day and night to vary 0 13 The Earth being tilted on its rotating axis causes seasons 0 14 Revolving is a kind of motion 0 15 The Earth revolving around the Sun causes stars to appear in different areas in the sky at different times of year 0 Table 1: An example of the relevance ratings used in the 2021 shared task. (top) The question and correct answer.
(bottom) Facts from the corpus, and their associated relevance rating, sorted from most-relevant to least-relevant.
While the dataset provides manual relevancy ratings for the top 30 rows, only 15 are shown here for space.

Explanation regeneration approaches on
WorldTree. A number of approaches have been proposed for the explanation regeneration task on WorldTree, including those from previous iterations of this shared task. These approaches adopt a set of diverse techniques ranging from graph-based learning , to Transformer-based language models (Cartuyvels et al., 2020;Das et al., 2019;Pawate et al., 2020;Chia et al., 2019), Integer Linear Programming (Gupta and Srinivasaraghavan, 2020), and sparse retrieval models (Valentino et al., 2021;Chia et al., 2019).
The current state-of-the-art on the explanation regeneration task is represented by a model that employs a combination of language models and Graph Neural Networks (GNN) , with the bulk of performance contributed from the language model. Strong performance is also achieved by transformer models adapted to rank inference chains (Das et al., 2019) or operating in an iterative and recursive fashion (Cartuyvels et al., 2020). In contrast with neural-based models, recent works (Valentino et al., 2021) have shown that the explanatory patterns emerging in the WorldTree corpus can be leveraged to improve sparse retrieval models and provide a viable way to alleviate semantic drift.

Task Description
Following the previous editions of the shared task, we frame explanation generation as a ranking problem. Specifically, <TASK>for a given science question, a model is supplied both the question and correct answer text, and must then selectively rank all the atomic scientific and world knowledge facts in the knowledge base such that those that were labelled as most relevant to building an explanation by a human annotator are ranked the highest</TASK>. Additional details on the ranking problem are described in the 2019 shared task summary paper (Jansen and Ustalov, 2019).

Training and Evaluation Dataset
Questions and Explanations: The 2021 shared task adopts the same set of questions and knowledge base included in the 2020 shared task (Jansen and Ustalov, 2020), with additional relevance annotation described below. The questions and explanations are drawn from the WorldTree V2 explanation corpus (Xie et al., 2020), a set of detailed multi-fact explanations to standardized elementary and middle-school science exam questions drawn from the Aristo Reasoning Challenge (ARC) corpus   Relevancy Ratings: The WorldTree V2 dataset used in previous iterations of the shared task includes a single complete explanation per question, supplied as a list of binary classifications that describe which facts are included in the gold explanation for a given question. This 2021 edition of the shared task augments these original WorldTree explanations with a pre-release dataset 3 of approximately 250,000 manual relevancy ratings. Specifically, for each question in the corpus, a set of 30 facts determined to be the most likely facts relevant to building an explanation were manually assigned relevancy ratings by annotators. Ratings are on a 7-point scale (0-6), where facts rated as a 6 are the most critical to building an explanation, while facts rated as 0 are unrelated to the question. An example of these relevance ratings is shown in Table 1.
Evaluation Metrics: Historically, performance on the explanation regeneration task was evaluated using Mean Average Precision (MAP) , using the binary ratings (gold or not gold) associated with each fact for a given explanation. To leverage the new graded annotation schema, here we switch to evaluate system performance using Normalized Discounted Cumulative Gain (NDCG) (Järvelin and Kekäläinen, 2002;Wang et al., 2013).

System Descriptions and Performance
The 2021 shared task received 4 submissions, with 3 teams choosing to submit system description papers. The performance of the submitted systems are shown in Table 2. Overall, we observe that all participating teams substantially improved upon the NDCG score achieved by the baseline model, with increases of up to 30%. In this section, we summarize the key features of the approaches proposed by the teams.
Baseline (tf.idf). We adopt a term frequencyinverse document frequency (tf.idf) baseline (see, e.g. Manning et al., 2008, Ch. 6). Specifically, given a question and its correct answer, the baseline calculates the cosine similarity between a query vector (representing the question and correct answer) and document vectors (representing a given fact) for each fact in the knowledge base. The model then adopts the tf.idf weighting scheme to rank each fact in the knowledge base for a given question-answer pair. This baseline achieves a NDCG score of 0.501 on the test set.
DeepBlueAI. The model presented by Pan et al. (2021) represents the top-performing system in this edition of the shared task with a NDCG score of 0.820 -representing a substantial 32% improvement when compared to the tf.idf baseline. The model employs a two step retrieval strategy. In the first step, a pre-trained language model is finetuned to retrieve the top-K (K &gt; 100) relevant facts for each question and answer pair. Subsequently, the same architecture is adopted to build a re-ranking model to refine the list of the top-K candidate facts. The authors propose the use of a triplet loss for the fine-tuning of the model. Specifically, the triplet loss minimizes the distance between an anchor and a positive example, while maximizing the distance between the same anchor and a negative example. The team treats question and correct answer as the anchor, while the facts annotated with high ratings are adopted as positive examples. Different experiments are conducted with three negative sampling strategies for retrieval and re-ranking. The best results are obtained when sampling negative examples from the same tables of highly relevant facts. The authors find that the best performance is obtained when averaging the results from RoBERTa (Liu et al., 2019) and ERNIE 2.0  with different random seeds.
RedDragonAI. The system developed by Kalyan et al. (2021) combines iterative information retrieval with an ensemble of language models, achieving a NDCG score of 0.771. The first step of the proposed approach is to retrieve a limited number of facts to be subsequently re-ranked by language models. The first step is a modification of the approach proposed by Chia et al. ( 2020), where the model iteratively selects the closest n   facts to the question using BM25 vectors and then update the query vector via a max operation. The iterative retrieval step is performed until a list of K = 200 facts is selected from the knowledge base. Subsequently, the top K explanation facts are re-ranked using language models. The best model consists of an ensemble of BERT (Devlin et al., 2019) and SciBERT (Beltagy et al., 2019). These models are fine-tuned to predict the target explanatory relevance ratings using the following input: Question + Answer [SEP] Explanation. Specifically, the authors frame the problem as a regression via mean squared error loss. The ensemble is achieved by linearly combining the scores of the models. The authors reported two negative results obtained using a two-stage approach and different negative sampling techniques. In the two-stage approach, the facts were firstly categorized using binary scores to discriminate between relevant and irrelevant sentences, and then re-ranked predicting the target explanatory relevance rating. Regarding the negative sampling strategy, the authors noticed that highest percentage of errors occurring at inference time was due to irrelevant facts that are lexically close to highly relevant explanation sentences. They attempted to alleviate this problem by randomly sampling facts from the knowledge base and retrieving close negative examples during training. Neither of these two methods resulted in significant improvements.
Google-BERT. Xiang et al. (2021) propose a framework composed of three main steps. In the first step, the model adopts a simple tf.idf model with cosine similarity to retrieve the top-K relevant explanation sentences (K = 50) for each question and correct answer pair. In the second step, the authors employ an autoregressive model which selects the most relevant facts in a iterative manner. Specifically, the authors propose the adoption of a BERT-based model (Devlin et al., 2019) that selects the facts at iteration n given the facts retrieved in the previous step. The model uses up to 4 iterations. Finally, the authors employ a re-ranking module to re-score the retrieved candidate explanations computing the relevance between each fact and the question-answer pairs. The re-ranking model is implemented using a BERT model for binary classification. The ablation study shows that the first two steps allow achieving a performance of 0.679 NDCG, that is improved up to 0.700 NDCG using the re-ranking model. Moreover, the experiments show that the best performance is achieved when the re-ranking model is adopted to re-score the top K = 30 facts.

Detailed Analysis
In order to better understand the behavior and contribution of the proposed systems, we perform a detailed analysis by grouping the explanatory facts in the supporting knowledge base in different categories. Specifically, we adopt categories that cover various aspects of the multi-hop inference process, ranging from different kinds of knowledge to different degrees of explanatory relevance and lexical overlap, to analyse the performance of each model beyond the overall explanation regeneration score.

