title
The MADAR Shared Task on Arabic Fine-Grained Dialect Identification
abstract
In this paper, we present the results and findings of the MADAR Shared Task on Arabic Fine-Grained Dialect Identification. This shared task was organized as part of The Fourth Arabic Natural Language Processing Workshop, collocated with ACL 2019. The shared task includes two subtasks: the MADAR Travel Domain Dialect Identification subtask (Subtask 1) and the MADAR Twitter User Dialect Identification subtask (Subtask 2). This shared task is the first to target a large set of dialect labels at the city and country levels. The data for the shared task was created or collected under the Multi-Arabic Dialect Applications and Resources (MADAR) project. A total of 21 teams from 15 countries participated in the shared task.

Introduction
Arabic has a number of diverse dialects from across different regions of the Arab World. Although primarily spoken, written dialectal Arabic has been increasingly used on social media. Automatic dialect identification is helpful for tasks such as sentiment analysis (Al-Twairesh et al., 2016), author profiling (Sadat et al., 2014), and machine translation (Salloum et al., 2014). Most previous work, shared tasks, and evaluation campaigns on Arabic dialect identification were limited in terms of dialectal variety targeting coarse-grained regional dialect classes (around five) plus Modern Standard Arabic (MSA) (Zaidan and Callison-Burch, 2013;Elfardy and Diab, 2013;Malmasi et al., 2016;Zampieri et al., 2017;El-Haj et al., 2018). There are of course some recent noteworthy exceptions Zaghouani and Charfi, 2018;Abdul-Mageed et al., 2018).
In this paper, we present the results and findings of the MADAR Shared Task on Arabic Fine-Grained Dialect Identification. The shared task was organized as part of the Fourth Arabic Natural Language Processing Workshop (WANLP), collocated with ACL 2019. 1 This shared task is the first to target a large set of dialect labels at the city and country levels. The data for the shared task was created under the Multi-Arabic Dialect Applications and Resources (MADAR) project. 2 The shared task featured two subtasks. First is the MADAR Travel Domain Dialect Identification subtask (Subtask 1), which targeted 25 specific cities in the Arab World. And second is the MADAR Twitter User Dialect Identification (Subtask 2), which targeted 21 Arab countries. All of the datasets created for this shared task will be made publicly available to support further research on Arabic dialect modeling. 3 A total of 21 teams from 15 countries in four continents submitted runs across the two subtasks and contributed 17 system description papers. All system description papers are included in the WANLP workshop proceedings and cited in this report. The large number of teams and submitted systems suggests that such shared tasks on Arabic NLP can indeed generate significant interest in the research community within and outside of the Arab World.
Next, Section 2 describes the shared task subtasks. Section 3 provides a description of the datasets used in the shared task, including the newly created MADAR Twitter Corpus. Section 4 presents the teams that participated in each subtask with a high-level description of the approaches they adopted. Section 5 discusses the results of the competition. Finally, Section 6 concludes this report and discusses some future directions.

Task Description
<TASK>The MADAR Shared Task included two subtasks: the MADAR Travel Domain Dialect Identification subtask, and the MADAR Twitter User Dialect Identification subtask</TASK>.

Subtask 1: MADAR Travel Domain Dialect Identification
The goal of this subtask is to classify written Arabic sentences into one of 26 labels representing the specific city dialect of the sentences, or MSA. The participants were provided with a dataset from the MADAR corpus , a largescale collection of parallel sentences in the travel domain covering the dialects of 25 cities from the Arab World in addition to MSA (Table 1 shows the list of cities). This fine-grained dialect identification task was first explored in , where the authors introduced a system that can identify the exact city with an averaged macro F1 score of 67.9%. The participants in this subtask received the same training, development and test sets used in . More details about this dataset are given in Section 3.

Subtask-2: MADAR Twitter User Dialect Identification
The goal of this subtask is to classify Twitter user profiles into one of 21 labels representing 21 Arab countries, using only the Twitter user tweets. The Twitter user profiles as well as the tweets are part of the MADAR Twitter Corpus, which was created specifically for this shared task. More details about this dataset are given in Section 3.

Restrictions and Evaluation Metrics
We provided the participants with a set of restrictions for building their systems to ensure a common experimental setup.  (e.g., geo-location data) were not allowed. Second, participants were instructed not to include the MADAR Twitter Corpus development set in training. However, any publicly available unlabelled data could be used.
Evaluation Metrics Participating systems are ranked based on the macro-averaged F1 scores obtained on blind test sets (official metric). We also report performance in terms of macro-averaged precision, macro-averaged recall and accuracy at different levels: region (Acc region ), country (Acc country ) and city (Acc city ). Accuracy at coarser levels (i.e., country and region in Subtask 1; and region in Subtask 2) is computed by comparing the reference and prediction labels after mapping them to the coarser level. We follow the mapping shown in Table 1. Each participating team was allowed to submit up to three runs for each subtask. Only the highest scoring run was selected to represent the team.
3 Shared Task Data Next, we discuss the corpora used for the subtasks.

The MADAR Travel Domain Corpus
In Subtask 1, we use a large-scale collection of parallel sentences covering the dialects of 25 Arab cities (Table 1), in addition to English, French and MSA . This resource was a commissioned translation of the Basic Traveling Expression Corpus (BTEC) (Takezawa et al., 2007) sentences from English and French to the different dialects. It includes two corpora. The first consists of 2,000 sentences translated into 25 Arab city dialects in parallel. We refer to it as Corpus 26 (25 cities plus MSA). The second corpus has 10,000 additional sentences (non-overlapping with the 2,000 sentences) from the BTEC corpus translated to the dialects of only five selected cities: Beirut, Cairo, Doha, Tunis and Rabat. We refer to it as Corpus 6 (5 cities plus MSA). An example of a 27-way parallel sentence (25 cities plus MSA and English) extracted from Corpus 26 is given in Table 2. The train-dev-test splits of the corpora are shown in Table 3. Corpus 6 test set was not included in the shared task. 4

The MADAR Twitter Corpus
For Subtask 2, we created a new dataset, the MADAR Twitter Corpus, containing 2,980 Twitter user profiles from 21 different countries.
Corpus collection Inspired by the work of  we collected a set of Twitter user profiles that reflects the way users from different regions in the Arab World tweet. Unlike previous work (Zaghouani and Charfi, 2018), we do not search Twitter based on specific dialectal keywords. Rather, we search for tweets that contain a set of 25 seed hashtags corresponding to the 22 states of the Arab League (e.g., #Algeria, #Egypt, #Kuwait, etc.), in addition to the hashtags: "#ArabWorld", "#ArabLeague" and "#Arab". We collected an equal number of profiles (175 * 25 = 4,375) from the search results of each of the hashtags. The profiles were all manually labeled by a team of three annotators. For each labeled user profile, only the first 100 available tweets at collection time are kept.   Corpus annotation Three annotators, all native speakers of Arabic were hired to complete this task. They were provided with a list of Twitter user profiles and their corresponding URLs. They were asked to inspect each profile by checking if the user indicated his/her location, checking his/her tweets, and label it with its corresponding country when possible. In the context of dialect identification, the country label here refers to the Twitter  user geopolitical identity with the assumption that such identity could be expressed either explicitly through the location indicated in the Twitter bio section, or implicitly through dialectal and MSA usage in the tweets. Annotators were instructed not to rely only on the location provided by the user, and were invited to use all the extra-linguistic information available in the profile such as images, proclamations of loyalty and pride, etc. They were also allowed to check other sources such as corresponding Facebook profiles, if available, to confirm the user's country. Profiles may be marked as Non Person, Non Arab or too hard to guess.
To measure inter-annotator agreement, a common set of 150 profiles were labeled by all annotators. They obtained an average Cohen Kappa score of 80.16%, which shows substantial agreement.
We discarded all profiles that became unavailable after the collection step, as well as profiles marked as Non Person, Non Arab or too hard to guess. Our final data set contained 2,980 country-labeled profiles. Three examples from the MADAR Twitter Corpus are shown in Table 4.
The distribution of the Twitter profiles by country is given in Table 5. The majority of the users obtained were from Saudi Arabia, representing 35.91% of the total profiles. Since there were zero Twitter user profiles from the Comoros in our dataset, we exclude it from the shared subtask.
Dataset splits and additional features We split the Twitter corpus into train, dev and test sets. The split distribution is given in Table 6. Participants were provided with the pointers to the tweets together with automatically detected language by Twitter, as well as the 26 confidence scores of the      (Zhang and Abdul-Mageed, 2019) The University of British Columbia, Canada 2 ZCU-NLP (Přibáň and Taylor, 2019) Západočeská Univerzita v Plzni, Czech Republic 1,2 

Participants and Systems
A total of 21 teams from 15 countries in four continents participated in the shared task. Table 7 presents the names of participating teams and their affiliations. 19 teams participated in Subtask 1; and 9 in Subtask 2. The submitted systems included a diverse set of approaches that incorporated machine learning, ensemble learning and deep learning frameworks, and exploited a various range of features.  8 as LM) were also used a lot. A few participants used pre-trained embeddings. All details about the different systems submitted could be found in the papers cited in Table 7.

Results and Discussion
Subtask 1 Results
Table 9 presents the results for Subtask 1. The last two rows are for the state-of-the-art system by , and the character 5gram LM based baseline system from Zaidan and Callison-Burch (2013). The best result in terms of macro-averaged F1-score is achieved by the winning team ArbDialectID (67.32%), very closely followed by SMART and Mawdoo3 AI Team with F1 scores of 67.31% and 67.20%, respectively. The top five systems all used non-neural ML models and word and character features. Two of the top three systems used ensemble methods (See  of the competing systems overcame the previously published  result.  8).

Subtask 2 Results
Unavailable Tweets One of the concerns with any Twitter-based evaluation is that some of the tweets and Twitter users included in the manually annotated training, development and test data sets become unavailable at the time of the shared task. In our shared task, the percentage of missing tweets from train and development immediately after the conclusion of the shared task was 12.7%, which is basically the upper limit on unavailability. The corresponding number for unavailable Twitter users was 7.6%. The range of percentages of unavailable tweets as reported by some of the participating teams is between 6.0% and 11.3%. However, there seems to be no significant effect on the systems performance, as the correlation between the percentage of unavailable tweets and performance rank is -62%. The range in percentages of unavailable tweets for the test set is much smaller (11.5% to 12.1%) since all the teams received the test set at the same time and much later after the training and development data release.

Conclusion and Outlook
In this paper, we described the framework and the results of the MADAR Shared Task on Arabic Fine-Grained Dialect Identification. In addition to making a previously collected city-level dataset publicly available, we also introduced a new country-level dataset built specifically for this shared task. The unexpected large number of participants is an indication that there is a lot of interest in working on Arabic and Arabic dialects. We plan to run similar shared tasks in the near future, possibly with more naturally occurring (as opposed to commissioned) datasets. We also plan to coordinate with the VarDial Arabic Dialect Identification organizers to explore ways of leveraging the resources created in both competitions. Table 9: Results for Subtask 1. Numbers in parentheses are the ranks. The table is sorted on the macro F1 score, the official metric,. The JUST system result was updated after the shared task as their official submission was corrupted. The last two rows are for baselines  and (Zaidan and Callison-Burch, 2013)  

