title
IJCNLP-2017 Task 2: Dimensional Sentiment Analysis for Chinese Phrases
abstract
This paper presents the IJCNLP 2017 shared task on Dimensional Sentiment Analysis for Chinese Phrases (DSAP) which seeks to identify a real-value sentiment score of Chinese single words and multi-word phrases in the both valence and arousal dimensions. Valence represents the degree of pleasant and unpleasant (or positive and negative) feelings, and arousal represents the degree of excitement and calm. Of the 19 teams registered for this shared task for twodimensional sentiment analysis, 13 submitted results. We expected that this evaluation campaign could produce more advanced dimensional sentiment analysis techniques, especially for Chinese affective computing. All data sets with gold standards and scoring script are made publicly available to researchers.

Introduction
Sentiment analysis has emerged as a leading technique to automatically identify affective information within texts. In sentiment analysis, affective states are generally represented using either categorical or dimensional approaches (Calvo and Kim, 2013). The categorical approach represents affective states as several discrete classes (e.g., positive, negative, neutral), while the dimensional approach represents affective states as continuous numerical values on multiple dimensions, such as valence-arousal (VA) space (Russell, 1980), as shown in Fig. 1. The valence represents the degree of pleasant and unpleasant (or positive and negative) feelings, and the arousal represents the degree of excitement and calm. Based on this twodimensional representation, any affective state can be represented as a point in the VA coordinate plane by determining the degrees of valence and arousal of given words (Wei et al., 2011;Malandrakis et al., 2011; or texts (Kim et al., 2010;Paltoglou et al, 2013;Wang et al., 2016b). Dimensional sentiment analysis has emerged as a compelling topic for research with applications including antisocial behavior detection (Munezero et al., 2011), mood analysis (De Choudhury et al., 2012) and product review ranking (Ren and Nickerson, 2014) The IJCNLP 2017 features a shared task for dimensional sentiment analysis for Chinese words, providing an evaluation platform for the development and implementation of advanced techniques for affective computing. Sentiment lexicons with valence-arousal ratings are useful resources for the development of dimensional sentiment applications. Due to the limited availability of such VA lexicons, especially for Chinese, the objective of the task is to automatically acquire the valence-arousal ratings of Chinese affective words and phrases.
The rest of this paper is organized as follows. Section II describes the task in detail. Section III introduces the constructed datasets. Section IV proposes evaluation metrics. Section V reports the results of the participants' approaches. Conclusions are finally drawn in Section VI.

Task Description
This task seeks to evaluate the capability of systems for predicting dimensional sentiments of Chinese words and phrases. <TASK>For a given word or phrase, participants were asked to provide a realvalued score from 1 to 9 for both the valence and arousal dimensions, respectively indicating the degree from most negative to most positive for valence, and from most calm to most excited for arousal</TASK>. The input format is "term_id, term", and the output format is "term_id, valence_rating, arousal_rating". Below are the input/output formats of the example words "好" (good), "非常好" (very good), "滿意" (satisfy) and "不滿意" (not satisfy). with valence-arousal ratings. For multi-word phrases, we first selected a set of modifiers such as negators (e.g., not), degree adverbs (e.g., very) and modals (e.g., would). These modifiers were combined with the affective words in CVAW to form multi-word phrases. The frequency of each phrase was then retrieved from a large web-based corpus. Only phrases with a frequency greater than or equal to 3 were retained as candidates. To avoid several modifiers dominating the whole dataset, each modifier (or modifier combination) can have at most 50 phrases. In addition, the phrases were selected to maximize the balance between positive and negative words. Finally, a total of 3,000 phrases were collected by excluding unusual and semantically incomplete candidate phrases, of which 2,250 phrases were randomly selected as the training set according to the proportions of each modifier (or modifier combination) in the original set, and the remaining 750 phrases were used as the test set.
Test set: For single words, we selected 750 words that were not included in the CVAW 2.0 from NTUSD (Ku and Chen, 2007) using the same method presented in our previous task on Dimensional Sentiment Analysis for Chinese Words . Each single word in both training and test sets was annotated with valence-arousal ratings by five annotators and the average ratings were taken as ground truth. Each multi-word phrase was rated by at least 10 different annotators. Once the rating process was finished, a corpus clean up procedure was performed to remove outlier ratings that did not fall within the mean plus/minus 1.5 standard deviations. They were then excluded from the calculation of the average ratings for each phrase.
The policy of this shared task was implemented as is an open test. That is, in addition to the above official datasets, participating teams were allowed to use other publicly available data for system development, but such sources should be specified in the final technical report.

Evaluation Metrics
Prediction performance is evaluated by examining the difference between machine-predicted ratings and human-annotated ratings, in which valence and arousal are treated independently. The evaluation metrics include Mean Absolute Error (MAE) 
where Ai is the actual value, Pi is the predicted value, n is the number of test samples, A and P respectively denote the arithmetic mean of A and P, and σ is the standard deviation. The MAE measures the error rate and the PCC measures the linear correlation between the actual values and the predicted values. A lower MAE and a higher PCC indicate more accurate prediction performance.  

Evaluation Results
Participants
Baseline
We implemented a baseline by training a linear regression model using word vectors as the only features. For single words, the regression was implemented by directly training word vectors to determine VA scores. Given a word wi, the baseline regression model is defined as ( ) ( ) 
where Valwi and Arowi respectively denote the valence and arousal ratings of wi. W and b respec-tively denote the weights and bias. For phrases, we first calculate the mean vector of the constituent words in the phrase, considering each modifier word can also obtain its word vector. Give a phrase pj, its representation can be obtained by, where wi∈pj is the word in phrase pj. The regression was then trained using vec(pj) as a feature, defined as ( ) ( )  The word vectors were trained on the Chinese Wiki Corpus 2 using the CBOW model of word2vec 3 (Mikolov et al., 2013a;2013b) (di-mensionality=300 and window size=5).

Results
Tables 2 shows the results of valence-arousal prediction for single words. The three best performing systems are summarized as follows. Tables 3 shows the results of valence-arousal prediction for multi-word phrases. The three best performing systems are summarized as follows.   Table 4 shows the overall results for both single words and multi-word phrases. We rank the MAE and PCC independently and calculate the mean rank (average of MAE rank and PCC rank) for ordering system performance. The three best performing systems are THU_NGN, AL_I_NLP and CKIP.
Table 5 summarizes the approaches for each participating system. CASIA, SAM and XMUT did not submit reports on their developed methods. Nearly all teams used word embeddings. The most commonly used word embeddings were word2vec (Mikolov et al., 2013a;2013b) and GloVe (Pennington et al., 2014). Others included FastText 4 (Bojanowski et al., 2017), characterenhanced word embedding (Chen et al., 2015) and Cw2vec (Cao et al., 2017  

Conclusions
This study describes an overview of the IJCNLP 2017 shared task on dimensional sentiment analysis for Chinese phrases, including task design, data preparation, performance metrics, and evaluation results. Regardless of actual performance, all submissions contribute to the common effort to develop dimensional approaches for affective computing, and the individual report in the proceedings provide useful insights into Chinese sentiment analysis. We hope the data sets collected and annotated for this shared task can facilitate and expedite future development in this research area. Therefore, all data sets with gold standard and scoring script are publicly available 5 .


